Speech on the Impact of Technology on Society: Today we are all surrounded by technology, be it the internet, cell phones, or any electronic radiation. Technology is considered as our biggest ally to deal where future challenges like climate change, global warming, overpopulation, water scarcity, etc. But have you ever wondered what are the impacts of technology on society? How does technology affect our social relationships? 

Everything comes at a price and so does technology. With the help of technology, we can connect with a person sitting in another country, allowing us to make international friends. But making connections with strangers often turns out to be a nightmare. There have been so many cases where netizens fell prey to cyberbullying, job loss, technology addiction, etc. We will provide you with a speech on the impact of technology on society, where we will cover all the dimensions of this topic. Stay tuned!

10 Lines on The Impact of Technology on Society
Here are 10 lines on the impact of technology on society. Feel free to use them in your academic and professional arenas.

Technology allows us to connect and communicate with distant people.
With the help of technology, we can bridge the gap between the digital divide.
People with disabilities find technology very useful to communicate with others.
Social media platforms like Instagram, Facebook, X, etc. allow us to share our thoughts with like-minded people.
Medical professionals can use technology to share medical treatment ideas, diagnostic tools, and healthcare management systems, enhancing overall health outcomes.
We can improve our work-life balance with the advent of remote working or work from home.
There has been a significant transformation in the film industry, where movies and TV shows are now available on online streaming platforms, like Prime, Netflix, SonyLiv, etc.
E-commerce platforms like Amazon, Flipkart, etc. allow us to buy products online. 
E-commerce platforms have also allowed businesses to expand their reach.
We can share green technology ideas via online conferences, video calls, or vlogs.


Easy Speech on The Impact of Technology on Society
‘Hello and welcome to everyone present here. Today, I stand before you to present my speech on the impact of technology on society. Technological inventions like the steam engine, electricity, batteries, the internet, computers, etc. have changed the entire evolution cycle. When we talk about the social impacts of technology, there are two sides; positive and negative.

On one side, technology has improved our communication and connectivity, education and knowledge sharing, workplace productivity, social activism, etc. With tech, we can make global connections, regardless of any geographical barriers. A new concept of telemedicine has evolved, where people living in remote areas can connect with medical professionals and consult on healthcare issues. We can learn about geopolitical developments, international summits, etc.


On the other hand, there are negative impacts of technology on society. The most common ones are privacy concerns and cyberbullying. Widespread use of technology often involves the collection and storage of personal information. This is a big privacy concern for everyone, as our data in someone else’s hand makes us vulnerable to data breaches, surveillance, and unauthorized access to our details.

Another impact is job displacement and inequality. Studies have shown that automation and AI have the potential to certain jobs, leading to unemployment and economic instability for some individuals. Recently, a survey was conducted that showed that the most vulnerable jobs to AI were data entry, basic customer service roles, and bookkeeping.

 A lot of people have fallen prey to cyberbullying. Talking to anonymous people over the internet can raise the flag of cyberbullying and online harassment. Young girls and students often fall victim to online harassment, which leads to emotional distress and mental well-being.

The list of negative impacts of technology on society doesn’t end here. Other drawbacks include dependence and addiction to technology, loss of traditional skills, information overload, social isolation, etc. 

While using technology, we need to be aware of what information we are gaining and what is its source. Relying bluntly on technology can put us in the corner, as it will affect our cognitive skills. We should use technology but in a sustained way and it should not turn into an addiction.

Thank you.